### UUID

A **UUID (Universally Unique IDentifier)**, also known as a _Globally Unique Identifier (GUID)_ is a 128 bit identifier unique across time and space. It is special because this identifier does not require any central authority to generate. UUIDs are commonly used in databases and transaction records due to their high generation rate and efficient generation.

The uuid library is a C++ library built for generating UUIDs. It can generate Version 1, 3, 4, and 5 UUIDs. The reason Version 2 UUIDs are omitted is because their uses are very specific and they are not widely used today. For all intents and purposes, a Version 1 or 4 UUID should be sufficient for common use.


### UUID String Representation

The UUID shown below is a Version 1 UUID.
`f81d4fae-7dec-11d0-a765-00a0c91e6bf6`

```
time-low                  = 4 hex octet (bits 96-127) [32 bits]
time-mid                  = 2 hex octet (bits 80-95 ) [16 bits]
time-high-and-version     = 2 hex octet (bits 64-79 ) [16 bits]
clock-seq-hi-and-reserved = 1 hex octet (bits 56-63 ) [8  bits]
clock-seq-low             = 1 hex octet (bits 48-55 ) [8  bits]
node                      = 6 hex octet (bits  0-47 ) [48 bits]
```
[Calculating Gregorian & UNIX Time Delta](https://www.calculatorsoup.com/calculators/time/time-date-difference-calculator.php?given_format=iso&d_0=1582-10-15&t_0=00%3A00%3A00&d_1=1970-01-01&t_1=00%3A00%3A00&all_units=on&given_format_last=iso&action=solve)


### UUID Versions


#### Nil UUID
**Nil UUID** is a special case UUID where all 128 bits are set to 0: `00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000`

#### Version 1 (Datetime and MAC Address)
**Version 1** UUID is generated by concatenating the MAC Address of a computer with the timestamp and clock sequence.

#### Version 2 (DCE Security)
**Version 2** UUID is omitted from this implementation (see introduction for explanation).

#### Version 3 & 5 (Namespace-Based)
**Version 3** and **Version 5** UUIDs are namespace-based UUIDs.

#### Version 4 (Random)
**Version 4** UUID is a random UUID. All 128 bits are set randomly (except the version and variant bits).


### uuid Library

The uuid library has one class named UUID. This class contains the abstraction for all Version UUIDs.

#### Constructors

##### No-args constructor
`UUID()`
* Constructs a Nil UUID: `00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000`

##### Version constructor
`UUID(const Version& ver)`

* Constructs a UUID given a `Version`
    * `Version::Nil` constructs a Nil UUID
    * `Version::v1` constructs a Version 1 UUID
    * `Version::v3` constructs a Version 3 UUID
    * `Version::v4` constructs a Version 4 UUID
    * `Version::v5` constructs a Version 5 UUID

##### Copy constructor
`UUID(const UUID& uuid)`
* Copies `uuid `to `this`

##### String constructor
`UUID(const std::string& uuid_str)`
* Constructs a UUID from the hexadecimal string representation `uuid_str`
* Parses the version from the string


#### Examples
Creating a Version 1 UUID:
`UUID uuid {UUID::Version::v1};`
Get the version number